I recently attended a Toastmasters
meeting but none of it was in English
you're going to want to watch this video
all the way through because later on I'm
going to show you how I somehow won the
best table topics award even though the
meeting was in Portuguese so why on
Earth was I at this meeting my wife and
I recently traveled to Portugal and part
of that trip included a visit to the
city of Porto Porto is a beautiful city
it was one of our fa stops while we were
in Portugal but I did my research
because I wanted to visit a Toast
Masters Club during our trip and I came
across the Oporto Toast Masters Club
which has this really cool concept they
alternate meetings so one week it's in
Portuguese the next week it's in English
and they go back and forth so I reached
out to the club and I heard back from
the VP of membership who is Paulo and
Paulo explained to me wait did the date
you're going to be here it's the
Portuguese meeting but I hope you will
still come I emailed Paulo back Paulo I
don't speak any Portuguese I don't think
that this is going to work but he
continued to encourage me and I thought
why not why not try it out I've talked
before how I'm so impressed with
Toastmasters members where English is
their second language and yet they still
show up they still do their best to
deliver speeches and speak in front of
an audience not in their first language
and so I thought this would be a great
experience for me personally to
experience a Toastmasters Club in
another language but before I stepped
into the room I'll have to say I was a
little bit nervous here's a quick clip
of me right before I went into the Toast
Masters meeting and some of my thoughts
heading in what's up everyone I'm in
Porto Portugal and I'm about to attend
my first ever Toast Masters meeting
that's in another language I'm at the
Porto Toast Masters Club Toast Masters
meeting and this club meets every week
and they alternate between English one
week Portuguese the next week and so I
happen to be traveling here during a
week when they're having their
Portuguese meeting so I'm about to
attend I will probably know very little
but it will be an interesting experience
and that's what this is all about so
looking forward to telling you about how
it went and let's see if I get a chance
to speak at all and if it's in
Portuguese I'm in trouble when I stepped
into the meeting I was in ly greeted by
Paulo and he introduced me to the other
club members of course he did this in
English for my benefit which I
appreciated and it was great getting to
meet so many individuals who do speak
Portuguese but they speak English as
well and then the meeting kicked off and
I learned a little bit about the format
of the Oporto Toast Masters Club they
have something I haven't seen before
which is a theme master and they have a
couple different elements for example at
the end of their meeting because they're
in Porto they cheers with a a little
drink of Port which hey if our club
could Implement that that would be
pretty cool it was a very special
experience to be part of that but what
was so interesting about attending this
meeting is that I could still understand
elements we've talked before about the
power of body language and vocal
variety and that the words we say is
only a small percentage of how a message
is delivered so even though these
speakers were speaking in another
language that I'm not familiar with
their body language their confidence
their vocal variety after a bit of time
I could understand the general themes of
what each speaker was talking about and
that was a cool experience it was almost
like a game of Charades in a way
following Along on what these themes
were at the beginning of the meeting I
was asked to introduce myself again they
were easy on me they allowed me to do
this in English and later on in the
meeting I was asked to give a table
topics answer thankfully again it was in
English that I was able to answer in I'm
going to show you that clip in a moment
but you're going to want to stick around
till the end of the video because later
on I chat with Paulo I interview him
about some of the history of the club
and I also interview the Oporto Toast
Masters Club president Katarina okay now
for what some of you have been waiting
for here was my toast Master's response
at the aorto Toast Masters Club I
responded in English I was kind of
cheating that way but they were very
gracious to allow me to do so so here
was that response thank you for the
question Mr TBL topics Master fellow
Toast Masters I'll talk to you in this
table topics answer about why I joined
Toast Masters in the first place I for
my job was required to speak to a group
of about 50 or 60 people once per month
and I was petrified of it leading up 2
weeks before I would start thinking
about it I would get anxiety I would be
stressed out and my whole goal with
joining Toast Masters was to reduce that
stress to make this type of thing
speaking in front of people not such a
scary event what I found is that over 3
months 6 months of attending meetings on
a regular basis it did just that it
reduced my anxiety which was mission
accomplished but then of course the all
the other benefits that we get with
Toast Masters the understanding to look
at the audience in his or her eyes to
use your hands for body language to
control the tone and the vocal variety
so there has been so many benefits I've
gotten through Toast Masters I admire
all of you you are not only speaking in
your native tongue but you're also
alternating on other weeks and speaking
in English as well which let's face it I
have to speak in English to all of you
which is something that I could improve
on as well in a secondary language so
thank you so much for this opportunity I
appreciate
it somehow that response won me the
table topics best performer I guess
whatever you call that the table topics
award for the meeting which I think they
were just being very kind because I was
a visitor but they deemed that the best
table topics response and as I mentioned
I had a chance to chat with the VP of
membership Paulo who has been with the
club for a very long time and he
explained some of the history of Oporto
Toast Masters Club hey everyone I'm here
with Paulo who is the VP of membership
at Oporto Toast Masters Club just got
through a Portuguese meeting which was
incredible so interesting Paulo can you
tell me a little bit about the history
of the club cuz my understanding is that
you've been around for 18 years and 17
of those You Are Presidents
distinguished yes yes that's true um we
are at the second oldest Club in
Portugal
so we were we we were founded in the
20th of November 2006 so we're 18 years
old going on 20 and this club for it was
first located at Port business school
now we're at this um Science Center this
it is up Tech University of of PTO
Technology Center and we are probably
the main Hub in in terms of toast M the
main hub of the north of Portugal mainly
because we do at least twice sessions in
English uh twice sessions a month in
English and we welcome everybody this is
not uh this is of course a community
club and it's has a strong culture uh as
you as you could see and you try to
improve these little bits of of of of of
ourselves our way of being in into into
this club where we try to innovate at
the same time uh respecting fully the uh
what is a toast Massa session because we
do not alter what a toast Masa session
is we just spice it a little bit with
with tiny bits of of of of of
improvements like a theme Master like
making a toast real toast at the end
um well several little things that I
think makes the club more interesting
and we try to with that to re to load
the the turnover that we most of the
clubs have we have probably most of the
clubs have this this uh this struggle
with keeping members uh but we grown and
from this club actually there was there
were born at least three other clubs wow
in these 18 years one of them it was
actually a split because at the time
when I was actually president of this
club uh we were 60 members active so we
really did have to split because it was
un totally unmanageable finally I
chatted with Katarina who is the Oporto
Toast Masters Club president about what
makes their Club so great hey everyone
I'm here with Katarina who is president
of the Oporto Toast Masters Club Karina
I want to start off by asking you how
did you get involved with Toast Masters
in the first place okay so I needed
obviously to improve my uh communication
skills I was um a PhD researcher and I
was studying I was doing my research in
a different country so I was feeling
very insecure and I needed to improve
those skills and also my English uh
confidence when speaking in public so I
know that I knew that there were these
clubs and joined and I felt very
welcomed and of course these uh
feedbacks that we get are useful also
and it's a safe environment so I keep I
keep I kept coming and here we are so
what makes Oporto Toast Masters Club
different than some of the other
clubs well clubs are different because
of their members of course and I think
the m here are people who come already
with a very high level uh of uh you know
in terms of their professional life they
already in
a very interesting place so they are
interesting members of course many other
clubs may say the same but I think this
one is really special in that way and um
they are very um focused they they want
to participate and at the same time they
are very funny which I find it very
particular so this is one of the things
that I like the most about about about
oportos Masters is um the the group of
people who would join here well one of
the things I found so interesting so the
meetings alternate so you have a
Portuguese meeting then an English
meeting the next week but the quality
the quality of speakers even though I
didn't understand the words per se the
body language was very clear what do you
credit the quality of these speakers to
well I don't want to say that I have had
an influence in that quality because it
it doesn't look well but we've uh we
invest lot in learning moments and we
started using the knowledge that was um
um the knowledge that we had from the
previous program educational program uh
since we moved to Pathways it's a little
bit more disperse the way that you can
learn things here so we try to recover
some of the things from the previous um
communication competent communication
handbook and brought it in in a way of
learning moments and I think that may
have had a small attending the Oporto
Toast Masters club meeting was one of
the most unique and quite frankly
amazing Toast Masters experiences I've
ever had the quality of speakers at this
meeting again even though it was in
Portuguese all of those things we can
still judge a speaker on the body
language the ability to present without
using notes the eye contact the vocal
variety was at such a high caliber and
it's no wonder as Katarina mentioned one
of the things that this club is doing is
they are grooming other members to be
the future president to be the future VP
of membership they're truly gearing
those individuals up so that they can
have a smooth transition which is
something I thought was incredible
there's no wonder this club is very
successful so if you are ever in the
Porto area I would highly encourage you
whether you're an English speaker a
Portuguese speaker whichever day the
meeting is on reach out to the club
experience this great Club what they
have to offer it is truly something
special thank you so much for taking the
time to watch this video